Triplie v0.7 alpha

------------
INTRODUCTION
------------

Thanks for downloading Triplie, an Nth order Markov model based chatter
bot. It is probably not as good as MegaHAL, but I believe you will find
it funny to use. It's interface is directly on IRC, so no need to load
TCL scripts or wrappers to megahal - you just configure it and run it.

------------
COMPILE
------------

To compile, unpack and type

make

The generated binaries will be called "triplie" and "cmdtriplie"
triplie is the IRC version and cmdtriplie is the command line version.

Configure the bot as explained below before running!

-------------
CONFIGURATION
-------------

(A) triplie.conf
----------------
First thing to edit is triplie.conf. Lets look at it a bit better:

server london.uk.eu.undernet.org 6666
nick triplie
ident triplie
name Triplie Diplie
chan #triplie -

1) The first line specifies the server here. This line MUST contain 3 words:
server hostname portnumber
They must all be correct. Otherwise the bot will not connect to the
server.

2) The second line is in the format "nick yourbotsnick" If the nickname is in
use, this simple version will not try another nick.

3) The third line is what will appear as the username of the bot if no identd
is installed on the machine.

4) The fourth line specifies the real name of the bot.

5) The fifth line specifies the default channel. When run, triplie will ALWAYS
try to join this channel first. The "-" in that line is a key, but
its usage is not implemented in this version, yet.

Note that these lines can be handled in any order, but it is important that
there are no missing parameters in any of them. Also, all the starting words
of those lines MUST be lowercase!

(B) admins.dat / ignores.dat
---------------
admins.dat is a simple file which lists all nick!user@hosts with admin access.
Admins can join or part the bot, save the word database, use op/deop/voice and
devoice commands, change a channel topic using the bot, etc. The important
part is saving the bot database. Choose your admin hosts carefully. On
Undernet I recommend using *!*@youruser.users.undernet.org for better
security. At the end it should look something like this:

mynick*!*myident@myvhost.myisp.com
*!*@myxuser.users.undernet.org

You can have as many lines as you want in this file, and every line should
be a hostmask like the 2 above. You can also have only 1 line.

Obviously, ignores.dat lists ignore hosts 

(C) words.dat and rels.dat
--------------------------
These files should NOT BE TOUCHED. This is where the bot remembers words
and their relations If you delete one single line in words.dat AFTER
running triplie and rels.dat appearing, the whole AI engine will mess up
and start talking pure garbage, or even spit out a segmentation fault.
If you delete a line in rels.dat, triplie will forget how some words
connect to eachother.

Before running the bot for the first time, you can edit words.dat to include
some common words of your language. In general this is not needed, after
joining a channel the engine will start learning at once.

-------------
COMMANDS
-------------

List of triplie's commands:

1) !join #channel
- makes the bot join the specified channel. At the present moment,
the bot does not remember the channel after shutdown.

2) !part #channel

3) !quit quitmsg
- the bot will quit IRC and the process "triplie" will end.

4) !op nick1 nick2 ... nick6
- ops specified nicknames in the current channel. The other commands
!deop !vo !devo work similar to !op but are for deop, voice and devoice.

5) !topic some topic
- changes the topic of the current channel. Note that some characters are
removed and the topic is converted to lowercase

6.1) !dict words
- triplie will say how many words it knows at the moment, in the channel.
6.2) !dict rels
- triplie will say how many relations between words it knows of.
6.3) !dict build someword
- triplie will take someword, build a small tuple using its AI engine
arround it, and spit out the result in the channel
6.4) !dict save
- triple will save its words and relations files. After this command
is executed for the first time it is strongly recommended that those
two files are NOT modified. Unless you want to mess it up.

-------------
NOTES
-------------

I have not tested if the bot compiles on other systems then mine. Please
let me know if your *nix system is unable to compile the bot.

This is an alpha release, it could contain bugs and have unoptimised
memory usage. I'm hoping to improve that in next versions

----------------
LICENCE & AUTHOR
----------------

Triple's source files are copyrighted to Spion, except for source files
from other authors that are used for it. At the moment there is no specific
copyright licence, but the final licence will most likely be GNU/GPL2 for
my parts of the code.

Thank you for downloading it! Have fun Smiling
Spion,
spion[at]spion<\dot/.>ws on Undernet@#mirc,#gentoo,#makxak
